::: {title="header"}
**Pantry Pal** {#pantry-pal align="center" style="margin-top: 0in; margin-bottom: 0in; line-height: 100%"}
==============

[]{#_h0ft5599xpku} Community Based Nonprofits- Team 1 {#community-based-nonprofits--team-1 align="center" style="margin-top: 0in; margin-bottom: 0in; line-height: 100%"}
=====================================================

\
:::

### **Overview** {#overview .western style="margin-bottom: 0in; line-height: 100%"}

*In the nonprofit community, our team had heard about recent increased
use of food pantries. During a global pandemic, the last thing a family
needs to worry about is where their next meal is coming from. Our team
found that what many food pantries lack is structure and organization.
This was leading to lack of communication and ultimately hindering the
ability of food pantries to reach people in need. We decided to create
an inventory system that would be easy for a food pantry to use and keep
track of what items they receive and what is in shortage. But what good
is this information if it is not getting to the people who have the
ability to change it. We expanded our solution to allow food pantries to
reach out to donors, communicating what items they need and how they can
help. Now pantries can communicate their inventory needs with donors and
serve more people in the community.*

### []{#_s6fsm5m8r4b1} **Team Members** {#team-members .western style="margin-bottom: 0in; line-height: 100%"}

\

*Arvind Krishnan - Sophomore computer engineering student with
entrepreneurship at Rose Hulman Institute of Technology. Worked closely
with the GO team and customer relations to get input.*

*Julia Giddens - Sophomore in Environmental and Ecological Engineering
at Purdue. Project manager who worked with the go team to contact
customers and refine our solution based on findings.*

*Philip Belpasso - Senior in Computer Information Systems at Ball State
University. Focused on building the inventory management system as well
as the mailing feature for the web app on the pro team.*

*Sam Vonderahe - Junior in Computer Science at Purdue WL. Worked with
the pro team to develop our web app. Worked mainly on design and Find a
Pantry features.*

*Louis Labuzienski - Junior in Computer Science at Indiana University
Bloomington. Worked on the wireframe, html templates, and various other
functionalities of the web app.*

### []{#_iuoyr1ih3wxy} **How did you decide on this customer segment, problem, and solution?** {#how-did-you-decide-on-this-customer-segment-problem-and-solution .western style="margin-bottom: 0in; line-height: 100%"}

*Our team began by looking at what some pantries were using already to
track inventory and communicate with donors. Some used an excel
spreadsheet or relied solely on experience to hand out food. We thought
that creating an inventory system could help food pantries with
organization. From contacting several pantries in the greater
Indianapolis area, there was a lot of frustration among food pantries
based on the uncertainty caused by COVID-19. We drafted possible
solutions such as volunteer onboarding, a communication platform between
pantries, and a matching service between donors and charity
organizations. After further research about how food pantries operate
day-to-day operations, we noticed there was a lack of organization in
inventory management. We found articles citing large amounts of food
waste due to receiving mass donations that pantries were unable to
manage. We also read several articles about how donors can best help
food pantries. Even the several pantries we had called, mentioned the
same problem outlined in the articles. We decided to combine food pantry
organizations while also alleviating responsibilities on the donor to
decide which foods to donate. From there, we narrowed our customer
segment. We had found that large pantries had inventory systems already
in place prior to COVID and were handling the influx of customers well.
However, small and midsize pantries were now serving more people than
ever. We called a variety of food pantries to find what aspects were
causing the most stress and obstacles in their day to day operations.
Pantries voiced concerts about increases in demand with fewer reliable
donations. We decided to add features to help pantries bring in donors.
The merging of the inventory system and donor communication seemed
promising to help these food pantries that had sudden increased demand
in the wake of COVID associated job losses. We would be able to help
pantries stay organized and maximize the efficacy of the donations they
were receiving within a single platform, which evolved into the current
model of Pantry Pal.*

\

\

### []{#_5mxjhkgw5lkz} **How did your team build and iterate on the solution?** {#how-did-your-team-build-and-iterate-on-the-solution .western style="margin-bottom: 0in; line-height: 100%"}

\

*Initially, our team decided to list all functions we thought could be
included in our solution. However not all of these were feasible given
the short timeframe of the challenge. We chose to prioritize features
that were essential to the functioning of the web-app based on our
responses from local pantries. Early on we chose to create wireframes so
that we had a unified vision of what the final product would look like.
Elements of our design took several iterations to refine. Some of the
early issues we encountered were related to the technology we wanted to
use to build our web application. There were a lot of choices that we
looked at, but eventually we narrowed it down between Ruby on Rails and
Django. We ended up going with Django because our team had more
experience programming in Python. Some of the feedback we received from
pantries allowed us to modify our development process. For instance, we
decided including an import/export feature for Excel would be beneficial
because some pantries already use Excel to track inventory. This would
allow them to easily transition to our web application. This is an
example of how feedback changed the way we iterated on our final
product. Our web application also underwent a number of aesthetic
iterations. The early colors and formatting were simple and lacked
character, but as time went on, our product started to have a real
Indiana-inspired look because of the creation of our logo. The logo
allowed us to iterate on our web application's design to match the
colors and theme.*

### []{#_1octcfxialpk} **Key Metrics** {#key-metrics .western style="margin-bottom: 0in; line-height: 100%"}

*5 interviews with constructive feedback*

*6 pantries show intent to use pantry pal*

*4 offered to recommend to neighboring food pantries*

*Instagram account created for outreach*

### []{#_dltqu8ftulgi} **Technical Architecture** {#technical-architecture .western style="margin-bottom: 0in; line-height: 100%"}

*(include architecture diagrams, schematics, data analysis, link to
GitHub repo)*

[*[https://github.com/SamVonderahe/TechPointSOS]{.underline}*](https://github.com/SamVonderahe/TechPointSOS)

\

\

\

[]{#_7q3me5nm8wwn}Sequence Diagram {#sequence-diagram .western}
----------------------------------

This Diagram describes the how a food pantry would use Pantry Pal to
send notifications to users

![](Abstract_html_5063b36c7558933a.png){width="563" height="645"}

[]{#_jszp7iwgnmms}Class Diagram {#class-diagram .western}
-------------------------------

![](Abstract_html_5f55497cc8253c9.png){width="471" height="347"}

### []{#_7ahcbw62s1t7} **Key Tools, Libraries, and Frameworks** {#key-tools-libraries-and-frameworks .western style="margin-bottom: 0in; line-height: 100%"}

\

-   *Figma: Allowed us to collaboratively design our website layout
    before we began implementation.*

-   *Git: The project started on Github so that all developers can code
    individually and merge versions with ease.*

-   *Django: This Python framework allowed us to quickly connect our
    database to our html pages for rapid development. Django also
    handles secure login for our users and is beginner friendly.*

-   *Bootstrap: This CSS framework allowed us to stylize our website
    with ease so that we could define a theme and be more attractive to
    our users.*

-   *mySQL hosted by Google: Our database is hosted for free by Google
    to ensure consistency with our development. Even though the website
    is currently hosted locally, the database is live so that any one
    accessing the website can view the same data.*

### []{#_2hwvmssbpw1j} **If you had another 5 weeks to work on this, what would you do next?** {#if-you-had-another-5-weeks-to-work-on-this-what-would-you-do-next .western style="margin-bottom: 0in; line-height: 100%"}

\

-   *Increase user personalizations*

    -   *Ability to sign in and pair with social media accounts*

    -   *More options for how data is displayed such as graphs and
        charts*

    -   *Privacy setting to choose what data is displayed to the public*

-   *Extend existing features to better ease of use*

    -   *Find a pantry function would include a map of local pantries to
        help visualization*

    -   *Further simplify donation process by adding the ability to give
        a monetary donation to food pantries*

-   *Improve account structure for more marketing potential*

    -   *More tiers to subscription model*

    -   *Have a primary administrative account*

    -   *Ability to have a premium model which includes more accounts
        that can access and edit pantry inventory*

\

**Checklist of Completed Items**

*(by checking the boxes below, you are verifying that the following
documents are submitted)*

\

+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| **Item**              | **Confirmation of     | **Explanation if not  |
|                       | Submission**          | submitted**           |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| Environmental         | -                     | \                     |
| Analysis              |                       |                       |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| Business Model Canvas | -                     | \                     |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| Value Proposition     | -                     | \                     |
| Canvas                |                       |                       |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| Customer Persona(s)   | -                     | \                     |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+

\
